>> Let's go round at our details page.
So we're gonna talk about
class components now.
So go to details.js.
I'm gonna miss this but it was obviously
it was a fun page while it lasted, but
let's go make this a little
bit more robust now.
So this is gonna be like, all right,
I clicked on Luna now I want to see
a full informational page about Luna.
So I'm gonna import component
From react ,and I'm
gonna import with router
from React-router-dom So,
let's remove details here, and instead of
having a function represent a component
we're gonna have a class
that represents a component.
So we're gonna say class,
details, extends, component.
So this is how you do what's
called a class component, and
class components have
lifecycle methods and
they work relatively similar to
function components in many ways.
But they end up being having some
slight variations from here to there.
And this is like the original
way of writing React.
React with hook is a relatively recent
thing, it's only in the past two years
probably that you've been
able to do hooks with react.
So the first thing that a class
component always has 100% of the time,
it always has a render method.
The render method is going to work pretty
much the same as your function body,
it's gonna always return some sort of
markup price, so something like this.
In fact if you just saved this and
went back over here and
clicked on like Luna now right, this would
work now, this is like the hello world,
of a class component.
It's just has a render method
that returns something.
Now some people prefer this and
I'm gonna be completely frank with you,
I actually like class components and
I think that's kind of an unpopular
opinion so don't trust me on it.
I think the general react populist
likes function components and
hooks and all that kind of stuff, but
I just like the how easy these are to use,
I like how easy they are to read and
understand later.
Anyway, neither here nor there, they're
both useful, neither one's going anywhere.
Just use the tool that's best fit for
the job that you're doing, right?
That's why I'm teaching both of these is
because you will see both and you'll have
opportunities where something will be
better expressed as a function component.
And you'll see other opportunities like,
hey,
this actually be better
modelled as a class component.
>> Are we doing this as a class component
just to learn how class components work,
or is it better in this case to
use this as a class component?
>> In this particular case, it's pretty
much just to learn class components.
Let's talk about the next thing,
is how do we create state?
So instead of having hooks we
have individual pieces of state.
With class components, you actually have
a state object that you're gonna refer to.
So I'm gonna make a constructor here.
This is a special kind of method for
a class,
this is not a React thing
this is a Java script thing.
This function will get run at the
beginning whenever you create a new class
or a new instance of a class rather.
So the first thing that you
always have to do whenever you do
a class component constructor
is you just have to call super.
Just like that,
React will yell at you if you don't.
Why is this?
Well, it's because you actually have
to call the component constructor.
And if you don't do this, this component
constructor will not get called.
So you have to do this.
Then here, this is everything that
you want to whenever you instantiate
a brand new instance of your class, this
is where you get to set up all the stuff.
Most importantly,
we're gonna say this.state equals, and
it's gonna be loading true.
So this is the default state.
Whenever we create one of these,
it's gonna be in a loading state, right?
The next thing we're gonna do is we're
gonna have an async ComponentDidMount.
So class components have something
called life cycle methods.
So component did mount is the thing
that gets called as soon as the React
component is rendered for the first time.
So as soon as someone goes to slash detail
slash one, it's going to render this for
the first time and
then it's gonna call component did mount.
This is kind of like the effect, right?
That that use effect where we gave it the
angle brackets, this is gonna get called
once when it's first created and
then it's not called again.
So what we wanna do when this page is
first called is we wanna go fetch all
the data for
the pet that we just tried to render.
So we're gonna say const res equals await,
Fetch, Yes, such, there we go.
We wanna do with the backticks
here, http://pets-v2-
.dev-api's.com/pets?id=${this.props.match-
.params.id}.
Now you might be looking at this like
what did I actually just right there,
that is so much staff I was not expecting.
So let's break it down for just a second,
this refers to the detail component right.
It's the component that we are working on.
Now that this these two match and params,
this is coming from react router,
the match and
the params are basically, where are we?
Here, so this is an app.js.
We have the details:id,
I need this, right?
This is what I'm looking for and this
is how React router lets you get at it.
So if I'm looking for dog of id 3.
This is where I'm gonna get it.
It's gonna come from the match
which is like the matched path.
The prams or the parameters that
I'm getting from the user, and
the id is this whatever I call this,
if I call this :dog, right?
Then it would be .match.dog, right?
It's whatever I called that.
>> If this was a function component
would it just be props.match.params.id?
>> Yeah, if this was a function component,
how would we get that?
You actually use a special
hook that gets it for you.
Okay, so that's gonna grab that.
We have to do the const
json = await res.json.
And then now I can say this.setState.
I got a bunch of stuff here from JSON.
And and
I could do a couple of things here.
I'm just gonna do something kind of easy.
Well, let's shoot this way first.
The first thing I wanna do is I
wanna say loading is false, right?
As soon as I've loaded this,
I wanna set the loading state to be false
because now everything is loaded, right?
That makes sense.
And this is how you do it.
With set state, what it does is it takes
this object that you're giving in emerges
back with the state that you have.
So in this case,
I only have one set piece of state.
But if I had like, other thing,
If I did this,
it wouldn't overwrite other thing, right?
It doesn't object at assign.
So it leaves the existing state there and
it only overwrites what you have.
Okay.
Now what I wanna do here is I'm getting
a bunch of state back from the API.
And I could go back here and
do exactly what we were
talking about before,
which is I need to do name and
that's gonna be json.pets.0.name.
So that's how this API works.
In fact, let's just take
a look at what it looks like.
You can see here it has a pets array.
So if there's multiple things that matched
it, it will give back all of them.
But it comes back in an array, right?
So zero and then this is gonna be one Luna
dog, Seattle, Washington description.
It's kind of burdensome to go back and
do all of those.
So let me show you just a really
fast way of doing that.
So instead of doing all that
we can do object.assign.
Wrap those in parentheses.
And then after that, I can say json.pets0.
So what's happening here?
We have this loading false, right?
So that's going to overwrite that.
And then everything else is gonna
be passed in just directly from
json.pets, right?
So the name, the description, the images,
all that, does that makes sense?
Cool.
So just to see what that looks like,
let's just do a console.log (this.state).
So let's go back here and look at this.
That's not gonna work quite yet.
That's true.
So let's go make that work.
We need to get this with route
working with this component.
So basically, by default,
React router doesn't pass in all its
information to the details component,
we have to say, hey, please give us all
that information we actually do need it.
And the way you do that is you just
wrap this details export at the end.
So this one right here
details withRouter like that.
And this is just gonna
now pass those props in.
This is what again,
called a higher order component.
And now it's gonna pass all
that information into details.
It's kind of magical but like I said,
it's just going to inject all the react
router information into the route.
Des it make sense?
So now if I refresh the page with details
one, you'll notice that the first time it
logs, it's got loading true,
which is what we expect, right?
Then when it comes back again, and
it calls this.setState here, that one,
it's gonna re-render
again with the new state.
So then it calls a re-render again, and
now we have everything coming back from
the API, the animal, the breed, the city,
the description, ID,
images, so on and so forth.
Makes sense?
All right.
So now that we have a bunch of
useful information coming back
from the API let's use it.
Let's make something that looks nice.
Get rid this console.log.
Okay?
Let's just destructure
up here because this is
gonna make it easier to work
with I'm gonna say const animal,
breed, city state, description,
name, = this.state.
Okay?
Here we're going to make
a div classname = details.
And a div inside of that and
that's gonna have an h1 with a name.
It's gonna have an h2 with,
Yes it's 2 that way.
Animal again, we're gonna do
one of those template strings.
Animal breed, City,
We're doing state,
city comma state Like that.
Then we have a button underneath it cuz
we're gonna make like an adopt feature.
So we do adopt, Name.
Now, you might ask me and
you totally get it done this way as well.
This actually works line 30 and
line 31 are equivalent.
One uses a template string, one just uses
like the native JSX way of doing it.
It doesn't matter,
you can do it either way.
I actually couldn't tell you why
I did it this way in my notes.
Probably just force of habit.
But you can intersperse these
curly braces wherever you want to.
Up to you,
I'm gonna leave it this way just because
that's where I use my notes, okay?
And then under the button, we're gonna
do a p tag with the description in it.
Okay, so now if we pop over here,
you can see, Luna so
Havanese, you can click adopt Luna.
And it's kind of like a little
description of her as well.
So why am I using object assign
instead of, let's just write it out so
you can see what it actually
would look like, this.setState.
Loading false and then you would
be like name, Pets.
See json.pets[0].name and
I'd have to do this for each one of them.
Breed, Animal, so on and so
forth for each one of them.
No problem absolutely
you can do it this way.
Some people would prefer it cuz
we're being more verbose and
here's exactly what I'm
expecting from the API.
I'm 100% okay at this is
what you choose to do.
This was just lazy Brian
writing lazy code.
In particular, because I typically use
TypeScript when I'm writing React and
TypeScript catch all the bugs that
I would normally face with this.
If I'm not using TypeScript, I might be
more prone to use something like this.
Because here's precisely
what I'm expecting.
So, up to you.